Now that you have written code to find the
unique IP addresses in a web server log,
let us take a brief look at something
very close that would not have worked.
Here is the code that you just wrote for
the unique IP addresses problem.
Remember that you have
an array list of strings and
that you put the string for each log
entries IP address into that array list.
But what if you had
written this code instead?
This code is the same as what you wrote,
but the array list holds log entries and
the code checks if it has the current log
entry, not the LogEntry's IP address.
Likewise, it adds the entire LogEntry
object, if it was not already there.
If you were to run this code,
it would give you the wrong answer.
In fact, it would tell you how
many total LogEntry's there are,
not how many unique IP addresses
there are in the log file.
Why is that?
To understand this problem, think for
a moment about how contains would work.
In particular, how does contains know if
two objects are the same or different?
Contains is going to
check if they are equal.
What exactly do we mean by equal?
Java has two different
notions of equality.
To illustrate this, consider the situation
in which you have three string variables,
a,b, and c, which refer to
two different string objects.
a and b refer to the exact same string
object, so they are clearly equal.
a and c however refer to different string
objects with the same logical contents.
On the one hand you could
say they are equal,
because they talk about strings
that mean the same thing.
On the other you could say they are not,
because they are talking
about different objects.
These are the two different notions
of equality that exist in Java.
The notion of equality meaning
the exact same object is what you get
when you write, = =.
If you write, a = = b, then Java checks if
a and b refer to the exact same object.
Since they do,
this expression evaluates to true.
However, if you write a == c,
then Java again checks if a and
c refer to the exact same object.
But because they do not,
this expression evaluates to false.
The other notion of equality,
do they mean the same thing,
is done with a .equals method.
If you wrote a.equals(c), then Java would
call the .equals method in the string
class, which checks if the two strings
have the same sequence of characters.
Because these two strings have
the same sequence of characters,
a.equals(c), would evaluate to true?
So how does Java know whether two
objects have the same logical meaning?
Each class defines .equals
to specify what it means for
objects of that type to be the same.
If you do not write one explicitly,
the default behavior would be to have
the .equals method check if the two
objects are = = to each other?
That is if they
are the exact same objects.
So know that you know
about equals equals and
.equals should you write
a .equals method for log entry?
Well the first thing you
should do is think about
when 2 log entries are logically the same.
What about if they have
the same IP address?
Well that would fix the broken code for
this particular problem,
it's not a good approach in general.
It does not actually match with the notion
of two log entries meaning the same thing.
Two different requests are not the same,
even if they came from the same computer.
So what if you checked more information?
What if you checked for the same IP
address and the same request string?
Even this would not really mean
the two log entries are the same,
as the same computer could ask for
the same page many times.
For log entries it makes sense to just
say that they are logically the same,
only if they are in fact
the exact same object.
Because the behavior you want
is the default for .equals,
you do not need to explicitly write it.
Since you do not need to write
a .equals method for this class,
we're not going to delve
into how to do it yet.
Fully understanding what goes into
a .equals method requires a little bit of
knowledge that you will not get until
the principals of software design course.
However, now that you understand the ideas
of equality and that the contains
method checks if two objects are the same
you can understand why this code
did not work and this code where
you used the IP addresses did work.
Thanks.